Notes Jun-23, 2014
========================================================

## Reading the Accompanying Paper

I'm reading the accompanying paper for this Kaggle challenge, found here: 

http://cs.stanford.edu/~althoff/raop-dataset/altruistic_requests_icwsm.pdf

Some thoughts and insights, both from the article and by my own intuition while reading:

* Posts that reward the giver are more likely to be fulfilled
* User prestige (karma, account age) results in a more likely fulfillment
* Two major characteristics in requests:
 * Who is asking and how that person is related to the community
 * How they are asking and what linguistic devices accompany successful requests
* A word map of successful vs unsuccessful posts could be a good visualization
* Group behavior can play a role, yet in RAOP, individuals are emphasized, not groups
* Users who indicate that they will reciprocate in the future are probably more likely to be fulfilled. Users who have contributed in the past are more likely fulfilled.
* Study indicates 379 requests have identified the benefactor through a "thank you" note
* Success factors of requests
 * Politeness. Includes deference, greetings, indirect language, apologizing and hedges.
 * Evidentiality. Evidence for the narrative or need. Urgent requests may be more likely to be fulfilled than non-urgent requests.
 * Reciprocity. People are more likely to help if they have received help themselves. The community is likely to fulfill requests for someone who is more likely to contribute later on.
 * Sentiment. Requests can be negative (lost job, financial problems) or positive (birthday, celebrations). Positive sentiments are more likely to be fulfilled.
 * Length. Longer requests more likely to be fulfilled.
* People are more likely to help others who resemble them. How would I predict based off of that? Paper recommends checking the intersect of subreddits between requester and fulfiller.
* Likely negative keywords: rent, unemployment, "hard times"
* Likely positive keywords: excited, celebration, reward
* The paper extracted narratives automatically by using topic modeling and related techniques. Performed topic modeling through non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) of a TF-IDF weighted bag-of-words representation. Enforced sparsity on the topic distribution for each request to shape topics in a way that captures the most given request (need to figure out what exactly this means). Restricted to nouns (using Stanford Part-of-Speech Tagger).
* Do college students (keyword "college" "student" "finals") have higher probabilities?
* See Table 1 of paper. Has a table full of keyword buckets and success probabilities.
* What effects so seasonal variables have? (Time of day, month, etc)
* The presence of an image link in the post may support evidentiality. (Screenshot of empty bank account)
* Stanford CoreNLP Package can encode whether the post is positive or negatively sentimented
* Sum up all the words in every successful post and unsuccessful post and see if there is a trend?
* Top features from paper: Posted in RAOP before (1.34), image included (0.81)
* Senior and active accounts are most successful.
* Is gender of requester a factor, if gender can be discerned?
* Notable factors in conclusion of paper: Gratitude, reciprocity, urgency, status
* Not notable factors in conclusion of paper: Mood/sentiment, similiarity

So it looks like the next big things I'll be looking at: Account age, length of post

## Post Length

Need to add a column for post length. The text of the post in the test data set is "request_text_data_aware". 

Random thought: Look for "edit" tags in the test data since post_was_edited variable does not exist in test data.

Random thought: I wonder how title length factors in?

````{R}
dTrain$PostLength <- nchar(dTrain$request_text)
dTrain$PostLengthEditAware <- nchar(dTrain$request_text_edit_aware)
dTest$PostLengthEditAware <- nchar(dTest$request_text_edit_aware)
````

Need to summarize the relationship between post length and fulfillment. The "doBy" package might be a good resource? 

````{R}
summaryBy(PostLength ~ requester_received_pizza, data=dTrain)
````

Success | Mean of Post Length
--- | ---
FALSE | 378.3
TRUE | 487.7

Okay, time to make a quick submission. All posts with >487 characters will be flagged as fulfilled.

````{R}
dTest$requester_received_pizza <- 0
dTest$requester_received_pizza[dTest$PostLengthEditAware > 487] <- 1
submit <- data.frame(request_id = dTest$request_id, requester_received_pizza = dTest$requester_received_pizza)
write.csv(submit, file = "./submit/submit2.csv", row.names = FALSE)
````

Submitted. Score bumped to 0.56099. Not bad!